Internet is getting more centralized due several
factors that most users are rarely aware of.

1.Cost of hosting:
A.media file hosting has been
dominated by large websites that can afford bandwidth
costs: such costs have not significantly decreased
for affordable website hosting, forcing dependence 
on cloud storage.

B.User-content hosting has been dominated
by large social media networks that can afford 
to moderate mass content and respond to legal challenges.
The larger a website grows the more legal/social
responsibility it accrues from its influence,
making the idea of neutral hosting impossible to
comply without investment in moderation:
user-moderated websites cannot moderate themselves
effectively without risks to website itself.

C.Social messaging systems have been converging
to few corporate networks that could handle the
strain of real-time media(voice/video) bandwidth,
with P2P networks limited due assymetric 
upload rates and usage caps dictated by ISPs 
that prioritize content consumption vs distribution.

2.Lack of Anonymity in Peer To Peer networks:
The current P2P networks leave users vulnerable
to malicious attacks and surveillance from governments,
copyright holders and ISPs. Performance of Peer to Peer
downloads and elitist culture of P2P have driven casual users
to centralized content farms and file hosting websites.
The anonymizing 'darknet' networks suffer
from further bandwidth handicaps and low
user adoption, which is detrimental to 
any large-scale project or website.


3.Lack of stability: websites run by 
personal hosting and small business can abruptly
expire or close down, making their content disappear.
Users tend to appreciate stability and safety of
large websites where dependencies of content hosting
are future-proof and handled with attention.
Hosting and bandwidth use are usually a significant
factor in small websites reccurring cost, making
them depend on advertisements, donations or secondary
services that all require community support.

